---
layout: post
title: 'Universal Platform: How to Connect Personal Devices'
subtitle: by Xingbang Liu
bigimg: /img/Devices.jpg
---
**TL;DR What is the solution that can cancel the gap between your personal devices**

Nowadays, mobile devices, such as smartphones and laptops, have become part of our life. Lots of people would feel bad if we live without it. However, a lot of people, including users and developers, have had situations that programs were too big and couldn’t have same functions on different platforms. For example, people may find that Facebook application is useful in smartphones, and they want the same application in their laptop which has the same functions and UI (User Interface). However, it seems there isn’t any official Facebook application at all. People may ask, why didn’t Facebook company make one? The problem is, they have much more to consider, for example, cost and business strategy. Additionally, for developers, different platform means different systems, different languages, etc. So, with such trouble, what solution can help to solve these problems?

If we analyze the core of the problem, we may ask, what if we can have the same platform for all kinds of devices? That would be really nice. However, there are several technique problems we have to consider. First of all, hardwires in different devices are different. In smartphones, the most popular platform is Acorn RISC Machine (or Advanced RISC Machine, ARM in short.) In computers, the most popular platform is The X86 Architecture and X86-64 Architecture. The main difference is ARM is much simpler than other platforms. So, devices with ARM can have a smaller battery, but it can’t process complex missions. Since the hardware is so different, the system they can use is different. Mobile devices can only use iOS and Android systems; computers can use almost all kinds of systems. With so many differences between devices, people have to be familiar with different devices. People have to make changes to their works and files so that they can use it on different devices. This is so complicated, let’s just go to the question: how can we have the same platform that works on all devices? There are some theories that can solve this problem; some people say we can unify the hardware between devices, while others think that we can have the same system between devices. Which way is more efficient? Let’s analyze famous companies’ solutions.

Apple company is one of the companies which tried to unify the experience in their products. Apple is famous for their computer, tablet, and cell phone products. With such a big verity, the systems that they use are different. Apple’s computers are using Mac OS, and their mobile devices, including tablets and smartphones, are using iOS. What Apple tried to do was to modify their systems, so that they can synchronize missions between devices. Since OS X Yosemite (10.10.X), users could use the Handoff function. As long as smartphones and Mac computers are in the same WIFI environment, users can call or pick the phone call in either Mac computer or iPhone. Users also can read and reply messages in Mac computer. This is only a small feature which can be the evidence that Apple is trying to cancel gaps between devices. This attempt was really good, just imagine, a person got a phone call on his iPhone, but he couldn’t reach the phone because of other reasons. Handoff would make a big difference in this situation. However, this is only an attempt; it didn’t really solve the problem of unity the platform.

Microsoft company is a major force who is trying to solve this problem. In 2015, the Mobile World Congress, Microsoft showed their Universal Windows Platform. This universal platform can work on Win 10 Mobile, Surface, Windows 10, Xbox, and HoloLens. With such a huge family of products, we can see why Microsoft is trying to work on this program. Users will have a bad experience if there are too many pieces of services. How do UWP works? The basic idea is, a program can work on all systems, no matter it is ARM or X86, high screen resolution or low screen resolution. This is a great advantage to developers because they don’t have to develop two or more different versions of programs. That is a one shot with two birds! Compared with EXE files that Windows has now, UWP programs are much less in its volume, and they can occupy less space when they are running. However, UWP also has shortcomings. When Microsoft first publish the idea of UWP, only a few of developers agreed and tried to develop UWP programs. Although there are much more programs in Microsoft Store, the features are still less than EXE programs. Except for this solution, recently, there are rumors say that Microsoft is developing Surface Phone which has the same platform as computers. It means people can run EXE files directly in smartphones. If that is true, the problem would have a final solution.

Google is a company which has Android and Chrome OS systems. From 2010, there were rumors said that Google would combine Android and Chrome OS together so that smartphones and Chromebooks could have the same experiences. This is also a solution full of potential. Developers don’t have to improve the hardware, and Android has the biggest market share in smartphone systems. Also, these two systems are all based on Linux system. However, it was not easy to combine them together, and there was no progress showed in the news.

Nowadays, unify the platform seems to be a trend in the technology field. Companies like Apple, Microsoft, and Google are trying to solve this problem. This was good for users because the advantage of unifying platforms is obvious: we can transfer files without limitation, install applications without barriers, have the same experience in all kinds of devices. So, no matter the solution is improving the hardware or developing new programs, as long as it works, the company would have the advantage to have the market share.
