---
layout: post
title: 'Video Chat: We are More Connected Than Ever Before'
subtitle: by Xingbang Liu
bigimg: /img/videoChat.jpg
---
**TL;DR Even though we are living far away from each other, we are still connected by video chat**

Some people say that individuals are more and more “isolated” nowadays. Maybe the reason is that we tend to work and study far away from home &mdash; but more people believe that technology is actually to blame. It is believed that the increasing popularity of smartphones and the social apps that are installed on them, cause people to be more and more addicted to a virtual society. That maybe right, but I would say technology &mdash; for example, video chat &mdash; actually makes us more connected than ever before.

Some of you might have already used Skype with your friends or families at some point. However, for people who are “old” enough, do you still remember the time before the year 2000? We didn’t have such a popular and convenient technology. Back to that ancient time, if people wanted to talk to their families who were far away, the choices were telephone and emails. If managers wanted to have a meeting with others, they might have to travel across the country, or even the ocean. That was very inconvenient for them. We had to pay a lot to get our telephones connected and an international phone conversation was very expensive. For managers, after a long flight, they would probably lose all the energies they had. I know because I have a similar experience. My flight from Wuhan (a city in China) to Pittsburg was 15 hours.

When I was a little kid, there were no video chat services. We didn’t even have low-speed Internet at that time because I was living in a small town in China, where we didn’t have good infrastructure. The only thing we had was an extremely low-speed Internet connection and telephones. My house was far away from my grandparents’. Apparently, the telephone couldn’t fulfill my grandparents’ wish to see me in person. So we had to travel for a long time each time we wanted to go visit them. That was a problem until the popularization and commercialization of high-speed Internet and video chat. The usual apps for video calls are Skype, WeChat (an app similar to Skype that is wildly popular with international students), or 3G/4G video chat. Now, I can simply tap the video call button on the application to communicate with my grandparents “face-to-face”.

With the help of video chat, we can not only achieve “face-to-face” communication with families but there are also a lot of other functions. For example, we can do an interview through video chat. If an interviewer and interviewee live far away from each other, it would be very inconvenient for the interviewee to travel a long time distance. That would cost a lot of money and time, which is inefficient. A lot of my friends in China did that when they have to be interviewed by college admissions officers. Imagine that, if we didn’t have video chat now, they would have to travel all the way to America to do the interview. I still remember when I was in high school, a friend of mine had a great teacher who lived far away from him. He was using video chat to take the course from his teacher. It is the same idea with remote surgery. Hospitals don’t have to spend a lot of money and time to invite famous doctors. The doctors can just use video chat to direct the surgery remotely. A more recent example is live broadcasting. The live broadcast is getting more and more popular in the world. People do gaming live, cooking live or performing live. There is no way to achieve that without the technology of video chat.

Video chat has had a broad impact on different areas of our lives from entertainment to medical field. As a very convenient way of communication, video chat does bring people closer and closer. I can’t imagine the world without video chat.

<a title="Chat" href="https://flickr.com/photos/aehdeschaine/14567009968">Chat</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/aehdeschaine">aehdeschaine</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-ND) license</a>
