---
layout: post
title: 'Technology as a Weapon to Protect Your Work'
subtitle: by Xingbang Liu
bigimg: /img/fake.jpg
---
**TL;DR How can we use technology to protect our works being plagiarized through technology?**

Plagiarism, which is copying others idea or work and pretend it is your work according to [Cambridge Dictionary](http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/plagiarize?q=plagiarism), has been a problem since a long time ago, it became serious since the technology is becoming more and more advanced. Some people say that technology is a great way to spread the information, and that makes it easier for people to copy and paste. There are also people think that technology can be helpful to archive people's work, so that the plagiarism can be easily checked online. I agreed with the first group of people. Technology makes it easier for people to plagiarize. However, I also think that technology can be used to protect our works.

Nowadays, technology has developed significantly, especially in the field of Internet and computer devices. The improving of technologies brought significant improvements for sharing of information. If a person wants to share some information, he can simply put it in public Internet space. Moreover, if that person wants many people know the information, he can simply create an interesting title and use a right platform to share it. With such an advantage of sharing the information, other people could easily find ideas which he needed, even if the original author didn't publish it yet. The worst case would be the people who found the idea would stole it, and made others believe that this idea is his. In the United States of America, we have a "de facto copyright," which means the writer would have a copyright once he is written the paper ([Legal Beagle](http://legalbeagle.com/5135133-copyright-paper.html)). Additionally, there are a lot of websites that contain published papers. All those factors make it hard to track the status of an idea or paper, which means if an author thinks his work has been copied, and he did not publish it on the Internet, book, magazine, or register it in U.S. Copyright Office, he will find it hard to defend himself.

Of course, many will probably disagree on the grounds that the advantage of sharing the information means it is easier for the Internet to archive people's work, as I mentioned in the beginning. I would think this idea has its limitation. For example, as I mentioned before, for papers which have been published, it would easier for people to track. However, for papers or ideas which have not been published officially, it would be harder to track. Additionally, there are other contributions for plagiarism which are totally off the ground. Some students would pay for other professionals to write papers ([KQED News](https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/2011/05/02/how-the-internet-affects-plagiarism/)). That is totally untraceable unless the professor has warrants to search for student's Internet history.

What if we can use the advantages of Internet to record our works? That would make our work traceable. There is an idea that I can think of is a community that we create our project online. The community could be the academic field of [Github](https://github.com/). The idea is, like Github community, once we create our project in the website, we can make editions by using "push common". That means, we can make notes about our thoughts on each iteration of commits. Once the author find that his work has been plagiarized, each commits could be the evidence for law suits. Or if the professor doubts the copyright of your work, he can simply read the commit notes to find out. All in all, as long as we can make our work traceable, we can avoid being plagiarized and make sure professors can find students who do plagiarize.

<a title="fake ill" href="https://flickr.com/photos/fotokiosk/7937073154">fake ill</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/fotokiosk">FOTOKIOSK</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a>
